README.md, before:

# Dominion Card Browser

A modern, interactive web application for browsing and filtering Dominion card game cards. Built with React and Vite, featuring multi-language support, advanced filtering, and a responsive design.

The application uses `dominion.json` as its data basis, containing all card and edition information.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This is a **fan-made project** and is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or associated with the creators or publishers of Dominion. I do not own the rights to Dominion or any of its content. Dominion is a trademark of its respective owners. This application is created for educational and personal use only.

## 🌐 Live Demo

**Browse the application live at: [https://dennisgermany.github.io/dominion/](https://dennisgermany.github.io/dominion/)**

## Features

- 🔍 **Search & Filter**: Search cards by name and filter by edition, card type, and image availability
- 🌍 **Multi-language Support**: Switch between English and German
- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Mobile-friendly interface with collapsible filter menu
- 🎨 **Customizable Display**: Adjust card size and toggle image display
- 📊 **Sorting Options**: Sort cards by name, price, type, or edition (ascending/descending)
- 🖼️ **Custom Image Upload**: Upload your own card images via folder upload in settings
- 🔒 **Optional Password Protection**: Secure access with configurable password authentication
- ⚡ **Fast & Efficient**: Optimized performance with React hooks and memoization

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher recommended)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd dominion
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Start the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

4. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5173` (or the port shown in the terminal)

## Configuration

### Password Protection

Password protection can be enabled/disabled via environment variables:

1. Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
```env
VITE_REQUIRE_PASSWORD=true
```

2. Set your password in `src/config/auth.js`:
```javascript
export const PASSWORD = 'your-password-here'
```

When `VITE_REQUIRE_PASSWORD` is set to `'true'`, users will be prompted for a password before accessing the application. The authentication state is stored in localStorage.

### Custom Card Images

You can upload your own card images to replace the default images. Uploaded images are stored in the browser's IndexedDB and persist across sessions.

1. Open the Settings overlay (click the ⚙️ button in the header)
2. Scroll to the "Image Upload" section
3. Click "Upload folder of images" and select a folder containing your card images
4. Images will be automatically matched to cards based on their filenames

**Filename Requirements:**
- Images must be named with the card's UUID (e.g., `d07e4264-98c8-4677-9492-b743f814eff9.jpg`)
- Alternatively, numeric IDs are supported (e.g., `123.jpg`)
- Supported image formats: JPG, JPEG, PNG, GIF, WebP, BMP

**How it works:**
- Uploaded images take priority over default images from the `/cards/` directory
- Images are stored locally in your browser using IndexedDB
- You can clear all uploaded images using the "Clear uploaded images" button
- The upload count shows how many images you have stored

## Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start the development server with hot module replacement
- `npm run build` - Build the application for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview the production build locally

## Project Structure

```
dominion/
├── src/
│   ├── components/          # React components
│   │   ├── Card.jsx         # Individual card display component
│   │   ├── CardGrid.jsx     # Grid layout for cards
│   │   ├── EditionFilter.jsx
│   │   ├── FilterStats.jsx
│   │   ├── ImageFilter.jsx
│   │   ├── LanguagePicker.jsx
│   │   ├── Login.jsx
│   │   ├── SearchBar.jsx
│   │   ├── SettingsOverlay.jsx
│   │   ├── SortControl.jsx
│   │   └── TypeFilter.jsx
│   ├── config/
│   │   └── auth.js          # Authentication configuration
│   ├── constants/
│   │   └── editionColors.js # Edition color mappings
│   ├── contexts/
│   │   └── LanguageContext.jsx # Language context provider
│   ├── utils/
│   │   └── imageStorage.js  # IndexedDB image storage utilities
│   ├── styles/
│   │   └── App.css          # Main application styles
│   ├── App.jsx              # Main application component
│   └── main.jsx             # Application entry point
├── dominion.json            # Card and edition data
├── index.html               # HTML template
├── vite.config.js           # Vite configuration
└── package.json             # Project dependencies
```

## Technologies Used

- **React 18** - UI library
- **Vite** - Build tool and development server
- **CSS3** - Styling with CSS custom properties

## Building for Production

To create a production build:

```bash
npm run build
```

The built files will be in the `dist/` directory. The build is configured with a relative base path (`base: './'`), making it suitable for deployment to any subdirectory.

## Development

The application uses:
- React Hooks (useState, useEffect, useMemo, useCallback) for state management
- Context API for language management
- LocalStorage for persisting settings and authentication state
- IndexedDB for storing uploaded card images
- Responsive CSS with mobile-first design principles

## Data Format

Card and edition data is stored in `dominion.json`. The structure includes:
- Cards with properties: id, name (en/de), type, price, etc.
- Editions with properties: id, name (en/de), card_ids array

## License

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

Everyone is welcome to improve the data basis (`dominion.json`) via merge requests. Whether it's adding missing cards, correcting information, or improving translations, your contributions help make this project better for everyone.

Commit message:

Update README.md to enhance instructions for custom card image uploads and clarify image loading priority

README.md, after:

# Dominion Card Browser

A modern, interactive web application for browsing and filtering Dominion card game cards. Built with React and Vite, featuring multi-language support, advanced filtering, and a responsive design.

The application uses `dominion.json` as its data basis, containing all card and edition information.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This is a **fan-made project** and is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or associated with the creators or publishers of Dominion. I do not own the rights to Dominion or any of its content. Dominion is a trademark of its respective owners. This application is created for educational and personal use only.

## 🌐 Live Demo

**Browse the application live at: [https://dennisgermany.github.io/dominion/](https://dennisgermany.github.io/dominion/)**

## Features

- 🔍 **Search & Filter**: Search cards by name and filter by edition, card type, and image availability
- 🌍 **Multi-language Support**: Switch between English and German
- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Mobile-friendly interface with collapsible filter menu
- 🎨 **Customizable Display**: Adjust card size and toggle image display
- 📊 **Sorting Options**: Sort cards by name, price, type, or edition (ascending/descending)
- 🖼️ **Custom Image Upload**: Upload your own card images via folder upload in settings
- 🔒 **Optional Password Protection**: Secure access with configurable password authentication
- ⚡ **Fast & Efficient**: Optimized performance with React hooks and memoization

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher recommended)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd dominion
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Start the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

4. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5173` (or the port shown in the terminal)

## Configuration

### Password Protection

Password protection can be enabled/disabled via environment variables:

1. Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
```env
VITE_REQUIRE_PASSWORD=true
```

2. Set your password in `src/config/auth.js`:
```javascript
export const PASSWORD = 'your-password-here'
```

When `VITE_REQUIRE_PASSWORD` is set to `'true'`, users will be prompted for a password before accessing the application. The authentication state is stored in localStorage.

### Custom Card Images

The application loads card images from two sources:
1. **Default images**: From the `/cards/` folder (e.g., `/cards/{cardId}.jpg`)
2. **Uploaded images**: From IndexedDB (browser storage)

You can upload your own card images to replace the default images. Uploaded images are stored in the browser's IndexedDB and persist across sessions.

**How to upload:**
1. Open the Settings overlay (click the ⚙️ button in the header)
2. Scroll to the "Image Upload" section
3. Click "Upload folder of images" and select a folder containing your card images
4. Images will be automatically matched to cards based on their filenames

**Filename Requirements:**
- **Image filenames must match the card ID** from `dominion.json`
- Card IDs are UUIDs, so images must be named with the full UUID (e.g., `d07e4264-98c8-4677-9492-b743f814eff9.jpg`)
- Supported image formats: JPG, JPEG, PNG, GIF, WebP, BMP

**Image Loading Priority:**
1. First, the app checks IndexedDB for an uploaded image matching the card ID
2. If not found in IndexedDB, it falls back to the default image from `/cards/{cardId}.jpg`
3. Uploaded images in IndexedDB take priority over default images

**Additional Information:**
- Images are stored locally in your browser using IndexedDB
- You can clear all uploaded images using the "Clear uploaded images" button
- The upload count shows how many images you have stored

## Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start the development server with hot module replacement
- `npm run build` - Build the application for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview the production build locally

## Project Structure

```
dominion/
├── src/
│   ├── components/          # React components
│   │   ├── Card.jsx         # Individual card display component
│   │   ├── CardGrid.jsx     # Grid layout for cards
│   │   ├── EditionFilter.jsx
│   │   ├── FilterStats.jsx
│   │   ├── ImageFilter.jsx
│   │   ├── LanguagePicker.jsx
│   │   ├── Login.jsx
│   │   ├── SearchBar.jsx
│   │   ├── SettingsOverlay.jsx
│   │   ├── SortControl.jsx
│   │   └── TypeFilter.jsx
│   ├── config/
│   │   └── auth.js          # Authentication configuration
│   ├── constants/
│   │   └── editionColors.js # Edition color mappings
│   ├── contexts/
│   │   └── LanguageContext.jsx # Language context provider
│   ├── utils/
│   │   └── imageStorage.js  # IndexedDB image storage utilities
│   ├── styles/
│   │   └── App.css          # Main application styles
│   ├── App.jsx              # Main application component
│   └── main.jsx             # Application entry point
├── dominion.json            # Card and edition data
├── index.html               # HTML template
├── vite.config.js           # Vite configuration
└── package.json             # Project dependencies
```

## Technologies Used

- **React 18** - UI library
- **Vite** - Build tool and development server
- **CSS3** - Styling with CSS custom properties

## Building for Production

To create a production build:

```bash
npm run build
```

The built files will be in the `dist/` directory. The build is configured with a relative base path (`base: './'`), making it suitable for deployment to any subdirectory.

## Development

The application uses:
- React Hooks (useState, useEffect, useMemo, useCallback) for state management
- Context API for language management
- LocalStorage for persisting settings and authentication state
- IndexedDB for storing uploaded card images
- Responsive CSS with mobile-first design principles

## Data Format

Card and edition data is stored in `dominion.json`. The structure includes:
- Cards with properties: id, name (en/de), type, price, etc.
- Editions with properties: id, name (en/de), card_ids array

## License

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

Everyone is welcome to improve the data basis (`dominion.json`) via merge requests. Whether it's adding missing cards, correcting information, or improving translations, your contributions help make this project better for everyone.
